# Restapi

This API is built using Spring Boot and is designed to facilitate the management of financial data through a web interface. Our module serves as a conduit between clients and their financial data storage, which is implemented as a local JSON file.

Clients can perform operations like creating, reading, updating, and deleting data using standard HTTP methods: POST, GET, PUT, and DELETE. The REST API processes these requests and utilizes a persistence module to manage interactions with the database efficiently. Responses are generated by the API to convey the results of these operations to the client, either in the form of retrieved data or status messages. To see more information see [diagram](/docs/diagrams/ClassDiagramRestapi.png)

## Configuration of the REST Server

The server is set to run on port **8080**.
The database is maintained in a local file named user.json.
The interface for accessing the database can be navigated using a web browser. For example, user-specific information can be accessed at '<http://localhost:8080/moneyspender/user/{username}>' for testing purposes with a placeholder username.

## Features

User Management: Create, update, and manage user profiles and credentials.
Expense Tracking: Log, categorize, and monitor expenses over time.
Data Integrity: Ensure that all financial records are accurate and reflect current transactions.
Security: Implement measures to protect sensitive financial data.

## Getting Started

Before you begin using the API, make sure you have installed all necessary software and dependencies.

To get started with MoneySpender REST API, follow the setup instructions provided below in this documentation.

Setup Instructions

Install the required dependencies from the **moneySpender folder** using:

```shell
mvn clean install
```

or to not run the tests.

```shell
mvn clean install -DskipTests
```

Start the server using the Spring Boot command in the root folder:

1

```shell
 cd restapi
```

2
To run the spring-boot server.

```shell
 mvn spring-boot:run
```

### Testing the restapi module

Make sure you are in the **moneySpender folder**

```shell
 mvn test -f restapi/pom.xml
```

### Testing code quality

- **JaCoCo**: We use JaCoCo to measure test coverage. To run the test in the restapi folder:

```shell
 cd restapi
```

```shell
 mvn test
```

JaCoCo generates code coverage data. To access the JaCoCo report, navigate to `restapi/target/site/jacoco` and open `index.html.` with your web browser.

**Spotbugs and Checkstyle:** To check spotbugs and checkstyle we recommend to run this from root folder:

```shell
 cd moneySpender or cd ..
```

```shell
 mvn verify
```

## Rest API module Dependencies

- (core) - Uses the core to represent objects like User and Expense.
- (spring-boot-starter-web) - Spring Boot Web resources used by the REST API including Tomcat.
- (spring-boot-starter-test) - Testing with Spring Boot.
- (junit-jupiter-api) - JUnit API for testing.
- (junit-jupiter-engine) - Running JUnit tests.
- (spring-boot-starter-jetty) - Replaces the default embedded Tomcat server with Jetty as the web server.
- (spring-boot-maven-plugin) - Simplifies the process of building and running Spring Boot applications.
  Additions

### The REST API module has plugins

- (spring-boot-maven-plugin) - Running the Spring Boot REST API.
- (maven-compiler-plugin) - Compiles the source files in the project.
- (maven-surefire-plugin) - Running unit tests.
- (maven-checkstyle-plugin) - Checking code quality with Checkstyle.
- (spotbugs-maven-plugin) - Finding bugs in the code with Spotbugs.
- (jacoco-maven-plugin) - Test coverage with Jacoco.
